Revise concept & reference docs for Services, Ingress & networking (#30817)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/services-networking/endpoint-slices.md

title: EndpointSlices
content_type: concept
weight: 45
description: >-
  The EndpointSlice API is the mechanism that Kubernetes uses to let your Service

>   scale to handle large numbers of backends.

Reviewer: > The EndpointSlice API is an evolution of the Endpoints API to let your Service
  scale to handle large numbers of backends.

Author: I'd prefer not to mention Endpoints too much - the aim of the commit that this text comes from is to make EndpointSlice _more prominent_.

title: EndpointSlices
content_type: concept
weight: 45
description: >-
  The EndpointSlice API is the mechanism that Kubernetes uses to let your Service

>   scale to handle large numbers of backends, and allows the cluster to update its
>   list of healthy backends efficiently.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  scale to handle large numbers of backends.
```

EndpointSlices aren't limited to healthy backends, and are used to represent the backends of a Services, not the cluster as a whole, I'd just drop this part to avoid confusion.

EndpointSlices can act as the source of truth for

> {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="kube-proxy" text="kube-proxy" >}} when it comes to

Reviewer 3: nit: when routing internal traffic

* IPv6
* FQDN (Fully Qualified Domain Name)

Each `EndpointSlice` object represents a specific IP address type. If you have
a Service that is available via IPv4 and IPv6, there will be at least two

> `EndpointSlice` objects (one for IPv4, and one for IPv6).

Reviewer: something like the address types are exclusive?

* IPv6
* FQDN (Fully Qualified Domain Name)

EndpointSlices represent a particular IP address family. If you have a Service that
is available via IPv4 and also via IPv6, there will be at least two EndpointSlices

> (one for IPv4, and one for IPv6).

Author: Is this right?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each `EndpointSlice` object represents a specific IP address type. If you have
a Service that is available via IPv4 and IPv6, there will be at least two
`EndpointSlice` objects (one for IPv4, and one for IPv6).
```

This also should probably clarify what "at least" means - if there's more than one IPv4 address used, will there be additional EndpointSlice objects?

Author: >  if there's more than one IPv4 address used, will there be additional EndpointSlice objects

There might or might not be.  Maybe this wording:
```markdown
If you have a `Service` that is available via IPv4 and IPv6, there will be at least two
`EndpointSlice` objects (one or more `EndpointSlice` for IPv4, and one or more
`EndpointSlice` for IPv6).
```

?

(aside: the neither-option-feels-right pluralization is a key reason why I don't like using backticks for the names of API kinds)

Due to the nature of EndpointSlice changes, endpoints may be represented in more
than one EndpointSlice at the same time. This naturally occurs as changes to
different EndpointSlice objects can arrive at the Kubernetes client watch / cache
at different times.

{{< note >}}
Clients of the EndpointSlice API must be able to handle the situation where
a particular endpoint address appears in more than one slice.

You can find a reference implementation for how to perform this endpoint deduplication

> as part of the `EndpointSliceCache` code within `kube-proxy`.

Reviewer: this was suggested by Rob or someone from sig-network?

I personally don't feel that the kube-proxy cache is a good example, there are more simpler ways of implementing this

Author: This PR is mostly a refactor - see https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/endpoint-slices/#duplicate-endpoints for the original text.

Due to the nature of EndpointSlice changes, endpoints may be represented in more

> than one EndpointSlice at the same time. This naturally occurs as changes to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
than one EndpointSlice at the same time, because changes to
```

> different EndpointSlice objects can arrive at the Kubernetes client watch / cache

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
different EndpointSlice objects reach the Kubernetes client watch / cache
```

> at different times, and is a design detail rather than a bug.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
at different times.
```

Author: OK - but why?

Reviewer 3: Imo it's because in general, the docs always document what the product does because it was designed to do the thing. If we did have a limitation or a bug, we'd explicitly say so. If the feature or product is performing as designed, we don't need to explicitly call that out, because that's the whole idea of documenting that

If we say "it's a feature, not a bug" (lol), almost sounds like we're trying to justify a bad design decision (which it might not have been at all!)
